[IMP] studio: complete update of Studio (#1974)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/studio/views.rst

:show-content:

.. _studio/views:

=====
Views
=====

> Views are the interface that allows to display the data contained in a model. One model can have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Views are the interface that allows displaying data contained in a model. One model can have
```

several views, which are simply different ways to show the same data. In Studio, views are organized
into four categories: :ref:`general <views/general>`, :ref:`multiple records
<views/multiple-records>`, :ref:`timeline <views/timeline>`, and :ref:`reporting <views/reporting>`.

.. tip::
   To change the default view of a model, go to :guilabel:`Views` and, on the view of your choice,
   click on the vertical ellipsis (:guilabel:`⋮`) and then on :guilabel:`Set as Default`.

.. note::
   You can modify views by using the built-in XML editor. To do so, enable :ref:`Developer mode

>    <developer-mode>`, go to the view you want to edit, select the View tab and then click on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <developer-mode>`, go to the view you want to edit, select the :guilabel:`View` tab and then click on
```

are represented by a bar under a time scale.

- To prevent users from creating or editing records, untick :guilabel:`Can Create` or :guilabel:`Can
  Edit`.
- To fill cells in gray whenever a record shouldn’t be created there (e.g., on weekends for
  employees), tick :guilabel:`Display Unavailability`.

  .. note::
     The underlying model must support this feature, and support for it cannot be added using
     Studio. It is supported for the Project, Time Off, Planning and Manufacturing apps.

- To show a total row at the bottom, tick :guilabel:`Display Total row`.
- To collapse multiple records in a single row, tick :guilabel:`Collapse First Level`.
- To choose which way records are grouped by default on rows (e.g., per employee or project), select
  a field under :guilabel:`Default Group by`.
- To define a default time scale to view records, select :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`,
  :guilabel:`Month`, or :guilabel:`Year` under :guilabel:`Default Scale`.
- To color records on the view, select a field under :guilabel:`Color`. All the records sharing the
  same value for that field are displayed using the same color.

  .. note::

>      As the number of colors is limited, the same color can end up being assigned to different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     As the number of colors is limited, the same color can be assigned to different
```

     values.

- To specify with which degree of precision each time scale should be divided by, select
  :guilabel:`Quarter Hour`, :guilabel:`Half Hour`, or :guilabel:`Hour` under :guilabel:`Day
  Precision`, :guilabel:`Half Day` or :guilabel:`Day` under :guilabel:`Week Precision`, and
  :guilabel:`Month Precision`.

.. _views/reporting:

Reporting views
===============

.. note::
   The settings described below are found under the view’s :guilabel:`View` tab unless specified
   otherwise.

.. _reporting/pivot:

Pivot
-----

The :guilabel:`Pivot` view is used to explore and analyze the data contained in records in an

> interactive manner. It is especially useful to aggregate numeric data, create categories, and drill

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interactive manner. It is specially useful to aggregate numeric data, create categories, and drill
```

Author: Especially is the right word here. No change done.

.. example::

   .. image:: views/list-sales-order.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Sales order model's List view

.. _studio/views/multiple-records/map:

Map
---

The :guilabel:`Map` view is used to display records on a map. For example, it is used in the Field
Service app to plan an itinerary between different tasks.

.. note::
   A :ref:`Many2One field <studio/fields/relational-fields/many2one>` linked to the *Contact* model is required to
   activate the view, as the contact address is used to position records on the map.

- To select which kind of contact should be used on the map, select it under :guilabel:`Contact
  Field`.
- To hide the name or the address of the record, tick :guilabel:`Hide name` or :guilabel:`Hide
  Address`.
- To add information from other fields, select them under :guilabel:`Additional Fields`.
- To have a route suggested between the different records, tick :guilabel:`Enable Routing` and
  select which field should be used to sort records for the routing.

.. example::

   .. image:: views/map-task.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Task model's Map view

.. _studio/views/timeline:

Timeline views
==============

.. note::

>    When you first activate one of the timeline views, you need to select which :ref:`Date
>    <studio/fields/simple-fields/date>` or :ref:`Date & Time <studio/fields/simple-fields/date-time>` fields on your model should
>    be used to define when the records start and stop in order to display them on the view. You can
>    modify the :guilabel:`Start Date Field` and :guilabel:`Stop Date Field` after activating the
>    view.
> 
>    The settings described below are found under the view's :guilabel:`View` tab unless specified
>    otherwise.

Reviewer 2: By "combine" I mean "in a bulleted list" but both look fine IMO.
```suggestion
   - When you first activate one of the timeline views, you need to select which :ref:`Date
   <studio/fields/simple-fields/date>` or :ref:`Date & Time <studio/fields/simple-fields/date-time>` fields on your model should
   be used to define when the records start and stop in order to display them on the view. You can
   modify the :guilabel:`Start Date Field` and :guilabel:`Stop Date Field` after activating the
   view.
   - The settings described below are found under the view's :guilabel:`View` tab unless specified
   otherwise.
```
